[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> My name is Craig Anderson.
I'm a 38-year-old
actor and filmmaker,
and I live in Sydney, Australia.
And though you probably
can't tell by looking at me,
I'm a little bit overweight.
This is my castle, my
fortress of solitude.
It's a combination of creative
arts studio and open plan
living space, better
known as a warehouse.
It's here that I pursue my
dream of being a filmmaker.
I write, act in, and edit
a lot of my own material,
and this is where
the magic happens.
But being creative isn't easy.
It requires stimulation of
both the mind and the body.
And that's why I start
each day with a trip
to the local swimming pool.
All right.
So this is the
warehouse where I live.
And I'm now driving
to the local pool/gym.
It's got everything.
But most importantly
it has a shower.
And my warehouse only
has cold water shower so.
Every few days my daily
routine is to drive to the pool
and have a shower there.
This might seem inconvenient,
but it beats a cold shower.
Plus, it gets me out of the
house, which, let's face it,
is pretty much my only
exercise for the day.
After avoiding weird glances
from people who've actually
been in the pool, I head home.
Time for breakfast.
Working long hours takes
energy, and creative work
is no different.
So I like to start the day
with a big, hearty breakfast.
A well-rounded
diet is important,
so I try to include all
the important food groups--
bacon, eggs,
sausages, hash browns,
and a serving of Froot--
Loops.
I'm clean, I'm fed, and
it's time to get to work.
All right.
Well, this is my room.
When I finish at the
pool, I come back here
and that's my bed, which
I haven't put away.
I sleep on the floor
on this mattress,
but I put it in the
corner during the day
so that potential
clients who come in
to check out the edits
that I've been doing
don't think that I'm a hobo.
That being said, I do have a
clothes rack in the corner.
No one ever says anything.
I don't know why.
I keep my clothes.
This is where the fresh clothes
go and the used clothes.
I won't open that.
That's in there.
And this is my edit suite, where
I sit pretty much all the time.
Maybe once a week
I get to go out
and actually shoot
something, which is fun.
But most of the time I
sit here at the control
tower and edit exciting
film and TV projects.
Video editing is a
time intensive job.
And it's normal for me to sit in
my edit suite for hours on end,
getting up to only go to
the bathroom or to eat.
And I often work
late into the night,
which means my dinner
options can be very limited.
All right.
Well, it's 11:30 at night.
And I finished
some editing, which
is great, because I nailed it.
But it's 11:30 at night.
And obviously, all
the places that
should be open where
you can buy food
are now closed, which means
I don't have many options.
There's convenience
stores, where
I could get a sausage
roll and a flavored milk.
Or there's McDonald's.
So I'm going to McDonald's.
Back from McDonald's.
And I got the beef value
meal, because value.
You get a whole
bunch of burgers.
Which is good, because
I'll eat a few of them now.
And then the ones that don't get
through I can put in the fridge
and I have for lunch or
for breakfast tomorrow.
So yeah.
It's economic sense.
So there you have it--
a snapshot of my life.
You might find it strange,
but I'm doing what I love.
I'm chasing my dreams.
And at the end of the day, I
wouldn't trade it for anything.
The only problem
is, it's killing me.
Another day, another burger.
In a typical week I'll eat at
least four fast food meals.
I don't know how much
of it's convenience
and how much is addiction.
I'm not sure I want to know.
And when I do cook for myself,
it's usually just as bad.
I decided to keep a record
of my eating habits.
It's not pretty.
Pizza, burgers, fries, all kinds
of sweets, and gallons of soda.
And that's just in one week.
I know how bad this is for
me, but I can't seem to stop.
I've tried every
died under the sun.
But in the end the results
are always the same.
The diet becomes
impractical to maintain,
and I fall off the wagon.
I know I need to change,
but I really don't know how.
Fortunately, the change
I needed found me.
Hang on.
Like the country?
Japan the country?
Yeah.
No, I've never been before.
A few weeks ago I was
contacted by my friend
Tim, a fellow filmmaker.
He told me he wanted to make
a documentary about the health
benefits of the
Japanese lifestyle.
As someone who grew
up in Japan, he
knows how different their
food culture is compared
to the typical Western diet.
His idea was this--
send someone to
Japan for two weeks
to learn how the
Japanese live and eat.
Then have them return home
and recreate that lifestyle
for a further 10 weeks
and see what effect
this three-month Japanese
diet has on their health.
For some reason
he thought of me.
Probably because
of my good looks.
After talking to Tim,
I did a little research
on Japanese health.
I found out that they
had some of the lowest
rates of obesity and heart
disease in the developed world.
They also have a
very low cancer rate.
The weird thing is, they don't
seem to skimp on their meals.
They are eating all
the time, and it's
a part of their culture.
So how is it a nation that
is so devoted to stuffing
their faces is amongst
the healthiest?
What is it about their
diet and lifestyle
that lets them live such
long and healthy lives?
I was intrigued.
So I told Tim I was in.
But before the fun
could start, there
were a few things I
had to take care of.
>> OK.
Are we ready?
>> Oh, yeah.
I love blood tests.
>> OK.
>> All right.
>> Right.
>> OK.
>> Just very still.
>> All right.
>> Thank you.
Great.
>> I'm doing some medical
tests before I leave to get
a snapshot of my overall health.
Once the diet is over I'll
come back and do the same tests
and compare the results.
This should provide a very
clear picture of what effect
that diet has had on my body.
How is my health in general?
Obviously it's not the best.
>> We've got your baseline here.
And there are some
areas of concern.
The most obvious one is
this red number here 4GGT.
And that is a liver enzyme.
This particular enzyme lives
inside a healthy liver cell
and does its toxic
waste recycling job.
When that liver
cell is damaged, it
releases this into
the bloodstream,
and then we measure it.
And yours has come back out
of reference range for that.
>> Out of reference?
>> Absolutely.
Yours is high out
of range, and that
would indicate an excessive
inflammation of your liver.
That can be due to
a lot of reasons.
But sometimes just
carrying extra weight
and perhaps having a very
high refined sugar diet
will actually promote that
extra demand on the liver,
damage those liver cells,
and then show this sort
of result on the blood test.
>> This diet is about
more than just weight.
It's about improving my health.
That's why I'm doing
this bio-impedance test.
Developed by NASA, the test
measures the biological age
of the patient.
And I think I'll be pleasantly
surprised with the results.
>> The healthy body weight for
you should sit between that red
line there, around 72 up to 75.
And unfortunately,
this is you here.
>> I look like the timeline.
>> Just a little bit overweight.
So that's something that
needs to be looked at.
The bad news is when we
look at your biological age,
you've ticked in
at 64 years of age.
The good news is that all
of this is reversible.
>> I get to keep this?
>> You get to keep that.
>> I get to keep that.
>> Yes.
>> How very exciting for
me to have this document.
My exam results weren't
as pretty as this footage.
Here's how I shape up.
I weigh a whopping 138 kilos.
And although I'm
only 38 years old,
I have the liver of a
64-year-old heavy drinker.
My high processed sugar
diet has caused my liver
to have serious inflammation.
And the enzyme
levels on the liver
function tests were completely
out of reference range.
I'm also at risk of future
cardiovascular disease,
particularly heart
attacks and strokes.
There's a thing called
a C-reactive protein
level, which is a good indicator
of cardiovascular risk.
Ideally you want
to score below 1.
Mine is at 4.6.
And speaking of unhealthy
numbers, my insulin level
is at 36.
Ideally it should
be below 10, which
means I'm on the fast
track to type 2 diabetes.
All this information
has just shown me
how much damage my current
lifestyle is doing to my body.
As someone who doesn't have much
experience with Japanese food
or healthy food in general,
I need a little guidance
before I leave.
So I'm seeing a dietician to
get some advice on what to eat
and what to avoid
eating whilst in Japan.
>> The Japanese have a wonderful
way of eating very close
to nature.
And they eat primarily
a plant-based diet.
And it will be easy,
as far as I'm aware,
for you to eat a much
healthier diet in Japan.
So let's have a look at the
foods you encounter in Japan.
We have fish here.
We have salad,
particularly seaweed salad.
Don't make that face.
>> What face?
>> Seaweed salad
is so good for you.
It's full of greens.
>> Sure.
Sure.
>> It's really good for you.
We have a little bit of rice,
some tofu, a Japanese omelet.
The other thing that I
love about this diet that's
particular for Japan
are the fermented foods.
When you ferment
a food, not only
do make it easier for your
body to absorb it and therefore
get the nutrients
from it, but it also
increases the bioavailability
of the bacteria.
So it increases our
vitamin K2, which
is really important for the
absorption of your vitamin D.
And so in your diet
plan here we're
going to include several
of them every day, natto
being one of them.
Have you come across natto?
>> No, natto is one that
people have told me is a little
displeasing, so to speak.
I'm ready for it, but--
>> Pungent, perhaps.
>> OK.
>> I think you could
get used to anything.
And I think in terms of
the increase of vitamin K2
that it's going to
bring into your body,
I think we should
get used to it.
>> [LAUGHS]
>> Another thing I'd
like to make an amendment
to your current diet is
the coffee that you drink.
Can you swap it for green tea?
>> Yeah, yeah.
>> And you can have four to
six cups of green tea day,
no problem.
Green tea is amazing.
It just has so many different
nutrients, antioxidants,
phytonutrients in
it that are going
to be really useful for us.
This is the size of your
stomach fully expanded.
So one fist is your plant-based
foods, whatever they are.
And the second
first, half and half,
you can have rice on
one half, and a protein
food on the other half.
>> OK.
So here I am about to
embark on one of the biggest
adventures of my life.
In less than 12 hours
I'll be in Japan.
This could be the start of a
whole new chapter of my life--
a chance to turn things around
and start living healthy.
As long as I stay
focused and stay strong,
nothing will be able to stop me.
I hope.
The city of Tokyo is
overwhelming-- neon lights
on every surface and
thousands of people
bustling through the streets.
Even late at night the sidewalks
are crowded with pedestrians.
I've been told the average
Japanese day involves
a lot of walking.
And seeing as I've
already walked
about a mile from the bus stop
to my motel, I can believe it.
This constant daily
cardio is a key component
to Japanese health, and
something I'll need to adopt.
To help me, I'll be wearing
an activity tracker,
which will record my physical
activity the whole time I'm
here.
This will give me an idea of
how much walking I'm doing
and how much I'll need to do
to maintain the lifestyle back
home.
Tomorrow my diet begins.
I'm excited, but
I'm also nervous.
I'm 38 years old going on 64.
And if I can't make this
lifestyle change now,
I don't know how many more
chances I'm going to get.
All right.
Well, I am in Japan.
I arrived last night, and
I've slept here in a motel,
and I'm very drowsy and excited.
But this morning
I'm going to have
my first meal of the diet, a
Japanese breakfast at the motel
buffet.
So last night before
I went to sleep
I went to a convenience
store and asked,
do you have chopsticks,
or to be honest,
do you have chopsticks for
people who aren't very good?
And they said yes.
And they gave me these.
Kind of like
children's chopsticks.
But they said it will make
it easy for me, because they
won't keep falling around.
So I'm off to breakfast.
All right. well,
it's breakfast time.
And I'm in the buffet
downstairs at the motel.
And this is western
food right here.
This is what I would
normally have for breakfast--
pikelets and pastries,
sausages, bacon.
Because I'm at a
buffet I'd probably
have three or four
of these plates.
But that's not what
I'm eating today.
This is my first
Japanese breakfast.
So I'm eating this.
My dietician said eating
slowly will help me feel full
and stop me from overeating.
So I've decided that for the
duration of this experiment,
I'm going to eat all my
meals with chopsticks.
And with my elite chopsticks
skills eating slowly
should be a piece of cake.
My dietician also
recommended that I drink
green tea instead of coffee.
Apparently it's jam packed
with antioxidants, vitamins,
nutrients, and all
the other things
that are usually healthy
person talk for disgusting.
I'll be drinking a lot of green
tea over the next three months.
So I've decided to
attend a green tea
ceremony to learn how
it's traditionally
prepared and served.
>> [SPEAKING JAPANESE]
>> I've been told to sit in
complete silence as the tea
master prepares the tea.
It's kind of like
waiting for the barista
at Starbucks, except a
little bit less exciting,
and I'm not allowed
to play with my phone.
>> Thank you.
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Two?
>> Both.
>> Yes.
>> And--
[SLURPS]
>> Very good.
>> Thank you very much.
Do you want some?
>> It's just me?
You don't have any?
>> You don't have tea?
In general?
You don't have any tea?
>> Oh, only the guest.
OK.
I'll finish it then.
>> OK.
>> I do like it.
Yeah, I like it.
It's great.
I just-- I thought
you might want some.
But OK.
>> OK.
I'll put it back.
>> Yes.
Thank you very much.
>> Thank you very much.
Is this where I--
>> I push it to you?
>> Yes.
>> OK.
My leg's gone dead.
Thank you very much.
>> Thank you very much.
I have-- the tea master
just made tea in a ritual.
And they just shut the doors.
And I don't know
what I should do,
it, like, I'm supposed to leave.
All right.
My leg is dead.
My leg is--
You were sitting
there the whole time?
I'm sorry.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
>> Do you always sit there?
OK.
What do I do?
Should I sit--
>> It's OK, yes.
We're finished, and so--
>> OK.
Thank you.
I am in Japan because
I need to be healthy.
>> Yes.
>> What, you don't
have to laugh.
What are you laughing at?
I heard green tea, very healthy.
>> Yeah.
>> Yes.
>> I was surprised.
I didn't know anything.
But when you brought
out green powder,
I thought it would
be like tea leaves.
But it's not.
It's powder?
>> Powder, yes.
>> What is the powder?
>> Amazing.
>> Green tea powder.
Very fine.
>> Very fine.
>> Yes.
>> Can I smell it?
>> Yes, you can.
Yes.
>> OK.
Yeah, you can smell--
>> Yes.
>> OK.
Sorry.
>> Would I like to make it?
>> Yourself?
Yes.
>> I would to make it.
>> You would teach me?
>> Yes, OK.
>> OK, great.
As he taught me how
to make the tea,
the tea master told me
about its health benefits.
He said it's great
for weight loss,
and it's full of
vitamin C, B1, and B12,
as well as iron and magnesium.
Thank you.
Thank you for having me.
>> OK.
>> For-- thank you.
I'll just-- I'll see myself out.
OK.
I am out for lunch.
And instead of being at
McDonald's or in my office,
I am sitting in a fancy
department store in Tokyo.
And this is the top floor,
where I've gotten horse?
No, no horse.
Soba, which is buckwheat noodle.
And that's horseradish.
And these are called
mountain vegetables.
And I think some of
them have been purified.
And I also have sauce that goes
on it and scallions and wasabi
to mix it all in.
I've also got a
green tea right here.
I'm enjoying the green tea
lot more than I expected.
And everyone seems to swear
by its health benefits,
so I've decided
to step things up.
For the remainder
of my diet I'm going
to drink nothing but
green tea and water.
This means no more soda, no
more juice, and no more coffee.
Can I go in and look?
>> OK.
Thank you.
Sorry.
>> All green tea.
Wow.
>> Yeah.
>> OK.
That's that one?
>> Yes.
>> OK.
I'm going to get that.
I've only been in
Tokyo for one night.
But already I've noticed a
large number of elderly people
out and about.
I read that Japanese
have the longest life
expectancy and more
people over 100
than any other
country in the world.
Is this because of their
diet and lifestyle?
I sure hope so.
If the doctor was right
about my biological age,
I'm going to need some
of that longevity.
Me and the crew
have left the motel.
We'll be staying in a house we
rented for the next two weeks.
That is, if I can find it.
OK.
Well, I'm in Asakusa.
And I left the
hotel, and I'm going
to move into a house for a week.
But it's my job
to find the house.
Unfortunately, my
phone has died.
So good day for my step
tracker, because I'm
going to try and find
it by walking around.
The guy on the internet who
owns the house, my Airbnb, said,
follow the golden
poo to start with.
So I'm pretty sure that's it.
So if we go across
the river, you know,
unless there's another golden
poo somewhere around here,
I'm pretty sure that's it.
I followed the golden Godzilla
turd across the bridge.
And after a lot more walking,
I eventually found the house.
All right.
Hey.
I think I just
turned on-- there's
like nine light switches here.
Oh, what does this mean?
OK.
I haven't been in
a Japanese house.
I have no idea.
Maybe it's wrong to
walk in with your shoes.
Yeah, OK.
I'm going to put
on some of these.
I'm going to dress up like my
grandmother and keep looking.
Oh, that fits well.
Remind you of anything?
This is like how I
sleep at the office.
Except prettier.
This is-- it's either a sauna
or a decompression chamber.
I reckon it's a sauna.
Oh, there's rocks in there.
This is just like Japan.
OK.
I'm in.
There's rocks in here.
It's the end of day one,
and it's been a good day.
It's been all
Japanese food today.
And I'm feeling good.
But also weird, a
little lightheaded.
And I've gone to the
bathroom like four times
to push stuff out.
And I don't know if it's
just the difference in food,
like not being used
to it here, or if it's
got to do with detoxing.
Green tea all day,
water all day.
I feel tired.
I've had a good day.
And I've done, like,
at least the amount
of walking that I was
supposed to have done.
And I didn't skip a meal.
So now I'm off to bed.
Today I'm off to the
outskirts of Tokyo.
The crew has arranged for
me to be a dinner guest
with a typical Japanese family.
If I'm going to stick to
this diet when I get home,
I'll need to know what kind of
ingredients the Japanese use
and how they prepare them.
Hopefully Yuko and
her family will be
able to give me some guidance.
Hey, hi.
>> Should I take my shoes off?
>> [SPEAKING JAPANESE]
>> OK.
This is all that
you eat for dinner?
>> Yes.
>> That's a lot of stuff.
Oh, what is that?
>> Renkon.
>> Wow.
Like potato?
>> No.
>> No, no.
No, not at all.
Oh, you can see
straight through.
I can see you.
>> Yeah, hi.
>> Hi.
What's this long thing?
>> Gobo.
>> Gobo?
OK.
>> Shiitake.
>> Oh, shiitake.
>> I've heard of shiitake.
Yes, mushroom, yes.
There are a lot of vegetables.
>> Yeah.
>> Vegetables--
>> Vegetables.
>> Small amount of fish.
Tofu?
>> Yeah, tofu.
>> Tofu.
OK.
>> Konjaku.
>> Konjac?
>> I think, yeah.
Konjaku.
>> OK.
Let's do that.
Konjac-- no.
What?
That's like a cube
of something--
>> [SPEAKING JAPANESE]
>> --floating in a gel
of some description.
So we're cooking a
very healthy meal.
We have these fish
shavings in the big pot.
And then-- oh, yes.
For my-- protect my sweater.
Thank you very much.
>> [SPEAKING JAPANESE]
>> Harrods.
Harrods.
OK.
I hope it fits.
No, it doesn't fit.
She's laughing.
All right.
Well, that's the second
insult for today.
>> Carrot.
>> Carrot?
>> Cut, please.
>> Oh, I should cut the carrot.
>> Yeah, yeah.
>> OK.
I'm coming behind you.
This is a very sharp knife.
I'm pressing hard.
I'm used to very dull
knife, so I'm cutting
through the chopping board.
OK.
Now triangle?
>> [SPEAKING JAPANESE]
>> Yeah.
Yeah.
OK?
Great.
>> OK.
>> OK, great.
What are you laughing at?
Is that wrong?
Is that OK?
>> I'll try.
>> I thought I was
doing a good job.
Oh, now you're in trouble.
What?
Oh, very thin?
No.
That is exactly
what I was doing.
I don't know why I was
taken off that task.
It's fine.
I've been told to
cut the konjaku.
Oh, I think massacring this.
I don't know what I'm doing.
Every time the knife
tries to get in,
it bends and folds and moves.
And then I know
you're not going to be
happy with what I've done here.
OK.
Sorry.
>> [EXCLAIMS]
>> Oh, sorry, sorry.
OK.
I dropped the
knife, but it's OK.
It did land straight
into the ground.
Sorry.
I probably-- hey, let's
look at origami with Aya.
Origami?
>> Origami.
>> OK, we go this way?
OK.
I'm sorry I dropped the knife.
OK, I'm sorry.
I'm going to--
I have been removed
from the kitchen
after dropping a knife and
sort of cutting my finger.
So I feel bad, but I'm
relieved to be here.
>> Wait.
>> Yeah?
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Yeah.
Yeah, OK.
Yeah, yeah.
We're doing origami.
>> Itadakimasu.
>> Sorry.
Oh, what?
>> Just do--
>> Should I take this here?
I'll put that guy there.
OK.
>> Oh, yeah.
Oh, OK.
>> OK?
OK.
Oh, what's this?
>> Gobo.
Oh, yeah.
The long one, yeah.
>> [SPEAKING JAPANESE]
>> Mm.
It's like squash almost.
Oh.
What's this one?
This is--
>> Renkon.
Renkon.
I have parents.
I go to their house for dinner.
But on our plate we have meat--
big meat, like steak, sausages.
I eat hamburgers.
>> No, no, no.
>> No, I know.
I know, I know I shouldn't.
But I do it.
I'm trying to stop.
Hamburgers, pizzas, chips,
like fries, all the time.
That's all I ever eat,
is a lot of bad food.
Junk food.
Yeah, I never have good food.
Arigato.
And sayonara.
>> Sayonara.
>> Dinner was delicious.
The dishes were
small but satisfying
and presented beautifully.
And best of all,
they were all made
without the use of an oven.
This is a big plus,
considering I don't actually
have an oven in my warehouse.
I did some research
on the vegetables
I'd eaten for dinner.
Gobo, renkon, and daikon.
I'd never heard of them
before, but they each
seemed to be packed with
different kinds of vitamins,
minerals, and nutrients.
They're also low in calories,
perfect for weight loss.
My old pal the
potato is starting
to look a little bit shabby.
Well, today's the day
I've been dreading.
But I suppose it's about time I
bit the bullet, or in this case
the fermented soybean.
It's natto day.
I've had a lot of
talk about natto.
People call it a superfood.
And they say it does
wonders for the digestion
and absorption of nutrients.
But they also say it stinks
like gym socks and moldy cheese
and tastes even worse.
But I can't leave Japan without
at least trying the stuff.
And the crew found
an entire restaurant
devoted to the natto bean,
which is lucky for me.
Hello.
>> Hello.
>> Hi.
Hello.
One natto.
>> Natto.
What do I-- how do I--
I just pick one?
>> OK.
>> Yes.
>> Are they good?
>> Yeah.
>> OK, I'll get those.
The gentleman is making my
food on the inside there.
I've ordered big
beans and small beans.
Apparently they're the
more popular dishes.
Oh.
>> Yes.
>> Thank you.
OK.
Thank you very much, yes.
>> OK.
Well, there it is.
How do I-- meant to eat--
what do I do?
OK.
>> [SPEAKING JAPANESE]
>> Chopsticks.
Yeah, OK.
>> Keep doing it?
A lot?
>> OK.
>> And this.
>> And put in there.
>> Yes.
>> On top?
>> OK.
That is freaky.
Why is it so sticky?
It's like a scene from "Alien."
This is my first try.
>> Yeah.
>> Never tried before.
OK.
Here we go. natto.
>> Smell.
>> It smells a bit like glue.
OK.
Yeah.
A lot like paint
thinner or something.
OK.
That's not too bad.
It's not-- it's a weird--
that is the weirdest texture.
It's so stringy and
wet and glue-like.
And it does smell like I've
just finished painting a house.
OK.
But the taste is not too bad.
>> Yeah.
>> Not bad.
>> Nice.
It may have smelled like
a ruptured septic tank
and had the texture
of thick snot,
but the natto didn't
actually taste too bad.
It's definitely
an acquired taste,
like good Japanese vegemite.
But it's a great
source of protein.
It's loaded with
vitamin K and has
been known to reduce the risk
of cardiovascular disease.
It'll never be my
favorite dish, but I
don't think I'll ever have
a problem eating it regular.
And speaking of regular.
[TOILET FLUSHES]
Hey.
So I'm in the bathroom a lot.
A lot as in three times a
day I go to the toilet now.
It's really weird.
I have to keep going.
I don't know.
I've only been doing
this for a few days.
And I don't know if it's because
it's the Japanese food that I'm
not used to, or if
my body's detoxing
from all the rubbish
and the sugar and stuff.
But yeah, I have to
go the toilet a lot.
Everywhere I go in
Tokyo I see food.
I feel like there's a restaurant
on every street corner.
The Japanese really are
all about their food.
And while there are plenty of
fast food joints and greasy
restaurants throughout
the city, finding
traditional Japanese
meals doesn't
seem to be a problem at all.
I've been eating at these types
of traditional restaurants
since I landed.
But the house I'm staying
at also had a kitchen.
So I think it's time
to put my new cooking
knowledge to the test.
But first, I'll
need some supplies.
I, um, too big.
[LAUGHTER]
Yeah, it's true.
Too big.
I do.
I'm on a diet.
I'm trying to eat
Japanese food, so.
What is this?
>> Seaweed.
>> A kind of seaweed?
>> All seaweed.
OK.
Is that that--
>> Yeah, yeah this is it.
>> Oh, that's that one.
>> Uh-huh.
Just a couple of pieces.
>> OK.
Maybe I'll try that.
>> Ooh.
>> [LAUGHS] What the hell?
OK.
Why is it so gluggy?
Sorry.
>> Very sticky, yeah.
>> Very sticky, sorry.
OK.
>> This is all the seaweed.
>> So sorry.
Thank you very much.
Bye-bye.
Thank you.
>> Thank you.
>> I just bought the
world's sharpest knife.
It wasn't advertised as
the world's sharpest knife.
But I was opening it,
I cut my thumb there.
And I've tried to tape it
up, but it keeps bleeding.
But I bought a knife, because
I need to cut some pickles.
Oh, that's great.
Oh, that's sesame
and peanut mixed
in with some seaweed
and some greens.
This I got from the supermarket.
It is to be put on top of rice.
It's like something
you mix with rice.
I only have a very small
amount of rice today.
I'm going to just
stick it on top anyway.
And that's the miso
from the packet.
Now, maybe it's because I
don't have a good palate,
or I'm not used to it yet.
But it kind of tastes exactly
the same as any other miso.
Unfortunately, there's a lot
more to the Japanese lifestyle
than just eating
delicious meals.
To discover what it is that
keeps this nation so healthy,
I need to experience
the different facets
of their lives.
So today the crew
has arranged for me
to spend an entire day with a
typical Japanese businessman.
I'd only just met Kazu before
it was time to get moving.
I'm told Japanese businessmen
do a lot of walking
in an average workday.
Just fighting our way
into the crowded morning
trains is exhausting.
I'm doing my best
not to slow him down,
but when nature calls,
you have to answer.
Sorry.
>> Sorry.
>> As we get close to
his first appointment,
Kazu relaxes a little,
and we get to talk.
How old are you?
>> You look very young.
>> Thank you.
>> I'm 38.
>> You're 38?
>> 38.
OK.
But do you think I'm older
or younger than I am?
>> Of course older.
[LAUGHTER]
>> Kazu has three different
meetings today all across
the city.
And he'll be
walking to each one.
I'm trying my best to keep
up, but my short strides
are no match for
Kazu's power walk.
I have no idea how he
does this every day.
My feet are killing me.
So I am going to
use my laptop bag--
which isn't a laptop
bag, because I
wasn't going to carry
around a laptop all day.
I did pack it with my shoes.
So I'm going to stick
these on instead.
With his schedule
so tight I wasn't
sure we'd be able
to stop for lunch.
But working men need to eat.
And Kazu is no exception.
He's brought me to a
noodle bar for lunch,
though I'm not sure if
it counts as stopping.
There are no seats in here?
>> Oh right.
>> For busy people.
>> OK.
What are these called?
>> Udon.
>> Yes.
We're in and out of the noodle
bar in under eight minutes.
The udon noodles are tasty
and relatively healthy
compared to the fast food
options I have back home.
I'm not sure if standing to
eat is good for digestion,
but there's no time
to think about it.
We're already hustling
to the next appointment.
Another meeting,
a lot more power
walking, and finally
the day is over.
It's time to head home.
Or so I thought.
Hey.
>> Hey.
>> Good to see you.
How did you go?
>> Yeah.
>> OK.
>> The end of the day.
>> That's great.
Do you go home now?
>> OK.
Yeah, sure.
OK
>> Yeah, it's Friday.
And this is what you would
normally do on a Friday?
>> Yes, of course.
>> All right.
Then we should do it, yeah.
>> That's the capsule hotel?
>> OK.
>> What's that mean?
>> Hang on.
Are you serious?
I might not fit in a capsule?
>> Kazu had booked us in at a
small bar called an izakaya.
It's a place where Japanese
businessmen often eat and drink
after work.
If there's ever a place
to test my dedication
to this new healthy
diet, it's here.
What type of food
do they make here?
Noodles?
A rice dish?
>> Yeah, I love edamame.
>> I have to eat Japanese
food to lose weight,
because it's healthy food
compared to Australia.
>> Healthy food?
>> Healthy food, yeah,
yeah, yeah, yeah.
So cabbage, healthy.
Tofu, healthy.
Oolong tea.
>> Oolong tea.
>> It's healthy, yeah.
>> All right.
What is this?
>> OK.
>> It's kind of--
>> I've heard of teppanyaki.
>> Yeah, it's--
>> Right.
I'm surprised by the
range of food offered
in this small restaurant.
The teppanyaki dish isn't the
healthiest, especially compared
to what I've been eating.
But it's balanced
out with side orders
of tofu, edamame beans, fresh
tomatoes, pickled cucumbers,
and sprouts.
When I went to the
doctor, they did tests
to find out what my
biological age is.
You know what biological
age-- yeah, OK.
64.
[LAUGHTER]
>> [SPEAKING JAPANESE]
>> OK.
It's not that--
[LAUGHTER]
After the meal, Kazu tells me
that no Friday night drinking
session is complete without a
trip to a nearby karaoke bar.
So when in Rome, do as
the drunken Romans do.
>> [SINGING IN JAPANESE]
>> Though Kazu and his friend
are in the mood to celebrate,
I decided to stick
with my oolong tea.
Who says I'm not a party animal?
I've missed the last train home,
so it's a capsule hotel for me
tonight.
I guess I asked for the
authentic businessmen
experience, so it's
time to climb on in.
I just hope I fit.
Kazu the salary man
was making stuff up.
Obviously I can
fit in here fine.
[SIGHS]
Yeah.
[? Blowing ?] up.
I just got back from a walk.
I went for a walk.
What the hell's wrong with me?
Every day the pain goes away,
and I want to do more sun-based
things like--
and this is weird--
just go for a walk
in the morning.
So I took my headphones
and walked around
like I was a teenager in
high school or university.
I remember doing
that a lot, listening
to music when I walked around.
So I did that, and
that was awesome.
And that is very
unusual, something I
haven't done for a long time.
Tofu is another cornerstone
of the Japanese diet.
I've been eating it
with almost every meal.
And while it doesn't
taste bad, it's
starting to get a little boring.
But apparently it comes in many
different forms and flavors.
So today I'm traveling to
a traditional style tofu
restaurant to sample
their many dishes.
Unfortunately, their
menus are in Japanese.
This one.
>> Yeah, tofu?
>> OK.
That's the sake-- ah, this one.
Tofu?
>> OK, OK.
Sake again.
Where is-- maybe there's--
OK.
Oh, no, they all look like sake.
Oh, all sake.
>> [SPEAKING JAPANESE]
>> This is drinks?
>> OK.
Let me try this one.
I'm going to try this one.
>> [SPEAKING JAPANESE]
>> OK.
Thank you.
OK.
This one.
>> Oh.
>> Tofu?
>> Too big?
>> Oh.
[LAUGHS] I picked
the child's menu.
OK.
Any moment now I'm going
to find the adult menu.
This one?
>> Yeah.
For me, yeah?
Tofu?
>> Tofu.
>> Excellent.
OK.
Great.
Whoa.
Tofu?
>> [SPEAKING JAPANESE]
>> Nailed it.
A big, white square.
This is something I wouldn't
expect was going to happen.
This is very exciting.
>> [SPEAKING JAPANESE]
>> I've never seen this before.
>> Oh.
>> OK, yes.
I'm told tofu is a great source
of protein, calcium, and iron.
And though it's a
bit bland on its own,
when you serve it with these
tasty sauces and condiments,
it's actually quite delicious.
Whoa.
>> Hot tofu skin.
>> [SPEAKING JAPANESE]
>> Oh.
Is that off the top of this?
>> Tofu skin.
>> Yeah, it looks like a giant
square off the top of that.
OK.
Do you want some?
>> No, no.
>> OK.
Confidence.
All right.
Here we go.
>> [SPEAKING JAPANESE]
>> OK.
Oh.
Sorry.
Mm-hmm.
It went-- it's like one
big, long strip of plastic,
or like--
I mean, it's delicious, sure.
But it was like
eating cling wrap.
And it just was one big, long
thing that was joined together.
So I digested it badly.
It all slid down.
But let's do it again.
Another one of these.
Yes, thank you.
After eating some more
of the hot tofu skin,
it was time to sample
some of the other dishes--
tofu salad, cold tofu skin,
and even a tofu dessert.
These tofu dishes sure
are tastier than the packs
of plain tofu back home.
OK.
It's morning time, and I have
made myself some breakfast.
And I have natto,
soybean, and pickles.
And I've got soybean, because we
don't have a rice cooker here.
So I'm eating soy and beans.
It's probably not good,
because they're both protein.
I've just realized.
OK.
Yeah, but that's
what I'm eating.
And I've got some
green tea here as well.
I've gotten into the habit
of shopping for groceries
instead of relying
on premade meals.
This will be invaluable
when I have to keep
the diet going back home.
Hey.
I just went to get some
water and some natto
at the convenience store.
I've put my jeans on
today, which is exciting.
Not because they're jeans, but
because I haven't worn them
for a while, and they
are feeling loose.
Which is good, because when I
wore them a couple of months
ago before I started this whole
process, they were very tight.
So I think I've lost some
weight around the waist, which
is good.
The whole time I've
been here, I haven't
seen any overweight people--
certainly no one as big as me.
I was wondering, what
are the locals thinking
when they see someone my size,
when all of a sudden it hit me.
There are people
this size in Japan.
In fact, they're much bigger
in every possible way.
Sumo wrestlers are
cultural icons.
And the majority of them are
still born and raised in Japan.
So what are they eating in order
to reach their massive size?
I asked the crew to arrange a
meeting with a sumo wrestler.
And as it turns out, they got
the biggest one of all time.
Konishiki is a sumo legend.
Born in Hawaii, he's
a three-time champion
and holds the record for the
heaviest sumo wrestler ever.
If anyone could tell me what
to avoid in my diet, it's him.
I'm just hoping
he won't be angry
when I ask him what I should be
doing to not end up like him.
Did you notice a
difference in food
between here and Samoa, Hawaii?
>> Well the food here
is great, you know,
even though at the beginning my
career there were some things
that I couldn't eat, like natto.
Natto is that--
>> I know natto.
I eat it every morning now.
>> I love it.
I love it now, but I couldn't
eat it before, natto.
The tofu wasn't
something I ate before.
But, you know, I think Japan has
a very healthy diet naturally.
>> Yeah, I've noticed.
It's much easier for
me to eat healthy here.
>> Yeah.
>> A lot easier.
>> And you notice, everything
that comes with Japan food,
there's always vegetables.
>> Yeah.
>> Always vegetables.
>> What do you eat to
get big as a sumo--
>> Chankonabe is a mixture
of a lot of vegetables.
And then your base
soup can be salt,
your base soup could be miso.
It can be like kimchi.
And then you add meat to
it, maybe pork, or beef,
or seafood.
It don't matter.
Chicken.
>> Right.
>> So it's like a stew.
>> It sounds--
>> It's healthy.
>> It sounds healthy, right?
>> It's not the food
that really gets us big.
>> It turns out sumo wrestlers
eat similar types of food
to regular Japanese people.
The major difference seems to
be the quantity that they eat.
>> This is the
normal, what we call,
[SPEAKING JAPANESE] in Japan.
This is the normal size of
a Japanese person at home.
This is like the average bowl
that we use in sumo stables.
>> Oh, right.
>> For rice and stew.
>> And the young fellas would be
eating three or four of those--
>> Everybody.
Everybody.
>> Everyone.
Right.
>> everybody.
>> But the young ones
would just eat more.
>> Yeah, yeah.
>> OK.
This is the difference, yeah?
>> Yeah, right.
>> So that's like how we see all
these Japanese people walking
around skinny.
But that's not only the reason.
If you see the distance that
they walk from door to door
to work every day,
you're going to find out,
because they, all of
them, catch trains.
>> My meeting with Konishiki
gave me a lot to think about.
While Japanese food is
healthy for the most part,
overeating can still
cause problems.
And Konishiki reinforced just
how much the Japanese walk.
They walk to work, to
school, to the grocery store.
They walk everywhere.
Back home I walk about
7,000 steps a day.
Since arriving in Japan, I
average about 12,000 steps.
And my day with
Kazu the businessmen
saw this number
jump to over 20,000.
This daily exercise is
more vital to the lifestyle
than I initially thought.
I'm going to need to keep
it up when I get home
if I want to maintain the diet.
Konishiki also reminded me
something my dietician told me
about portion sizes.
She told me not to eat more
than the size of my fist
during any given meal.
I realized that
the Japanese custom
of serving small
bite-sized dishes
has inadvertently helped
me manage my meal portions.
Today I am meeting
with Mr. Otaka,
who operates several cafeterias
inside of factories, offices,
and schools around Tokyo.
He's agreed to give me a
tour of one of his kitchens
so I can observe
the type of meals
which is served in a
typical Japanese cafeteria.
Oh, that's good.
Hey, we look like train drivers.
>> Yeah?
>> It doesn't-- is that OK?
>> Oh, OK.
[LAUGHTER]
>> Should I put another one
on backwards or something?
>> That's OK.
>> It's OK?
>> OK.
>> They won't get upset?
>> Right.
>> OK, OK.
Where do we--
Like back home, schools and
large companies in Japan
often provide hot lunches
for their employees.
But unlike back home there
are no burgers, French fries,
or pizzas to be seen here.
This is miso?
>> Miso soup.
OK.
I don't know how to make soup.
I'm sorry.
I don't understand myself.
But I use packets--
>> Oh, yeah.
>> --and put it in a cup--
>> --with water.
>> Oh, right.
Even when cooking
en masse, providing
healthy and nutritious
meal options is a priority.
Mr. Otaka even
employs a nutritionist
at each of his
cafeterias to ensure
a high standard of meals.
How do I eat the fish
without cutting it?
>> Yes.
>> I do that?
>> Yes, please.
>> And you pull it apart.
Yeah.
OK.
>> It is difficult for me.
>> By chopsticks.
Amazing.
Thank you so much.
You're like my dad now.
>> Oh, yes?
>> You cut my food
for me before I eat.
I'm going to pick
it up like this.
Is that OK?
>> OK.
That's OK.
Mm.
And slurping--
[SLURPS] --is good?
>> Right.
>> So I shouldn't-- with meat,
so I shouldn't make a lot
of slurping?
>> A little bit, but not--
>> Right.
[SLURPS QUIETLY]
>> Good?
Not bad?
That was OK?
>> OK.
This?
[SLURPS, COUGHS]
>> I don't think so.
>> OK.
All right.
It was probably too much.
>> To drop on the rice.
So it's like using,
instead of a hand--
>> So I can do this.
And I look good?
>> Mm-hmm.
>> Yeah.
>> Oh, and you drop it.
>> My meeting with Mr. Otaka has
shown me that cheap, healthy,
nutritious food choices
are abundant everywhere,
even in places you
would never expect.
The Japanese culture seems to
promote a healthy lifestyle,
even in locations where greasy,
fried foods would be so much
easier to serve.
I don't know how I'm going
to match this type of food
when I get back home.
My stay in Japan is almost
over, and I'm starting
to get a little worried.
While it's easy and affordable
to eat healthy here,
doing the same thing back home
will be a different story.
If I'm stuck in the middle of
nowhere on a film set all day,
I don't think catering
will be offering green tea
and natto for lunch.
I thought back to the start
of my journey and my dinner
with Yuko and her family.
She mentioned making her
children a bento box,
a kind of Japanese
packed lunch, which
they took to school every day.
I called Yuko, and she
arranged for her friend Ryoko
to teach me how to
make a bento box.
Oh, I know.
I know this.
Gobo.
>> Gobo.
>> Cut.
>> And cut in the center?
Oh.
>> And we make a finger puppet.
You turn it-- OK.
That's amazing.
OK, can I?
>> Yeah, you make a hole in
the center, and then you--
>> Yeah?
OK.
Konjaku.
>> [SPEAKING JAPANESE]
>> What?
OK.
OK, all right.
Oh, OK.
Don't look over
here for a second.
OK.
>> No, nothing.
Good.
In.
gobo?
>> Gobo.
In it goes.
gobo.
Bamboo shoot in there.
To be completely honest, I'm
not sure what I'm making here.
But I'm using the
same ingredients
that Yuko used for
her dinner, so I'm
pretty confident that this is
going to be a healthy lunch.
We've boiled and
washed the spinach.
And now we slice it up.
And it's going into sesame
that I've just grounded up.
So this is tamagoyaki.
It's like an omelet.
Man, this is upper level.
This?
In it goes.
OK, OK, OK.
All right, good.
Under.
>> Under.
So you just lift it up
and let it fall under.
Ho, this is the worst part.
>> [SPEAKING JAPANESE]
>> I can see what you're doing.
I don't know if I can.
OK.
Quickly.
>> [EXCLAIMS]
>> Hey.
Wow.
With all of the individual
ingredients prepared,
it's time to build
the bento boxes.
Like most Japanese
meals, the bento box
consists of a lot of small
side dishes and vegetables.
Oh, look at that.
That is beautiful.
We have our omelet
called tamagoyaki.
We've got all of our
vegetables there.
And we have a plum.
We have our rice
with nori on top.
And then underneath we have
kombu, another type of seaweed,
green goodness.
Now that I know how
to make the bento box,
I need to buy one of my
own to take home with me.
That's pretty cute.
They don't really
have a boy's one.
But I don't mind.
I like this.
Today I sort of
solved a big problem.
I now know I can take bento on
to my work, my weird, random,
"who knows what day where
I'm going to be" type work.
And I can open it up and just
have it at my regular times.
So that's going to solve
a lot of problems for me
when I get back and I
am stressed about what
I'm going to do every day.
I pack.
I can be self-sufficient, pretty
much, for one, even two meals
throughout the day,
and then just make sure
I get home to prepare my
other meal, or if I'm out,
at a place that sells sushi or
the type of food I need to get.
I can do that.
I've been in Japan now
for almost two weeks.
And I think that I've got
the food thing figured out.
I feel confident in knowing
what to eat and what to avoid.
Shopping and cooking for myself
has become a habit, and foods
that I would never
have eaten back home--
tofu, pickled vegetables,
green tea, even natto--
now feel normal to me.
And most importantly,
I'm keeping
an eye on my portion sizes.
Oh.
Yeah.
So I just lost my pants.
When I'm carrying bags--
there's good news.
We're heading to the temple.
But my pants have become looser.
It means they fall down when
I'm not able to hitch them up
as I'm walking.
So yeah.
Where do I put this?
How do I--
It's my final weekend in
Japan, and the crew and I
are spending it at a
Zen Buddhist temple
a few hours out of Tokyo.
I feel like I've learned
a lot about Japan's food
and lifestyle.
If I can stay motivated
once I get home,
I know this diet
will be a success.
I'm hoping a Buddhist monk
can give me some guidance
and help me stay focused.
Konishiki, when he visited
the temple last week,
there's some sort
of ritual where
they hit you with a stick.
And because he's
Konishiki and a big guy,
they went and got a really
big stick, a thick one,
and they hit him really hard.
And it welted and became black.
It was a very painful
mark that they left.
And he says they were
doing it for comedy.
So I'm a little bit
worried, because I
think probably the temple's
been briefed that I'm a comedian
and there's going
to be a film crew.
So I'm worried
that the monk, he's
going to hit me harder,
because it's funny to do that.
We've stopped at a
roadside diner for lunch.
And I'm pleasantly
surprised to find that even
here healthy meal options
are readily available.
This is from a roadside
diner in Japan.
The crew have been able to order
slightly more exciting meals,
with deep-fried stuff and
burgers and western things.
But this is what I can get
at a diner in the roadside
along a highway in Japan.
So it's very exciting.
If I was in Australia
and I was pulling over,
I'd be eating burgers and
sandwiches and hot chips.
But this is what I got
here, a very healthy meal.
With lunch out of the way we
continue to the temple high
in the mountains west of Tokyo.
We arrive just
after lunch to find
Asami, the temple's sole monk
and caretaker, waiting for us.
Hello.
>> Hello.
>> Hi, nice to meet you.
>> My name's Craig.
>> Oh, you live here?
>> Alone?
>> Oh, are you OK?
>> Yeah.
>> You're not scared.
>> No.
OK, good.
>> Yeah.
It's beautiful.
It's really pretty, yeah.
>> Thank you.
>> 250?
This building is 250 years old.
>> Yeah.
>> Wow.
It's in good shape.
It's still strong.
Yeah.
>> Thank you.
>> Congratulations.
You're not 250 years old?
>> No, no.
>> All right, just checking.
I have come to Japan,
because I'm too big.
[LAUGHTER]
And I wanted to
ask you, what I can
learn from Zen to be healthy?
What I need to do, prepare
my mind, for when I go back?
>> OK, good.
I'm going to be very simple.
>> Yeah.
>> I'm going to think of nothing
else other than this exercise.
It's copying the sutra.
OK.
This?
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah, OK.
>> No smell.
>> OK, no smell.
Well, I'm not supposed
to be talking to you,
because I'm working
on my [? ku. ?]
But I don't know if
that's a deliberate trick,
but this table is very,
you know, not stable.
And maybe it's a lesson.
But it's very annoying
when I'm trying
to think of nothing else.
OK.
I'm going to put
my sock underneath.
I just passed the first test.
I tried to clear my mind and
focus on nothing but writing my
[? ku. ?] And I think it
worked, because I didn't even
notice that the sun had set
and that my toes had started
to freeze.
>> I think so.
Is this OK?
>> Oh, whoa.
>> It's perfect?
>> Yeah, perfect.
>> I'm a bit bad with the--
>> OK.
Not fat.
>> Oh.
>> Good?
>> Thank you.
That's why I'm here.
Not fat.
>> Yeah.
>> Do you need me to
help you in the kitchen?
>> Yeah, thank you.
Thank you.
>> I would love to.
OK.
>> Yeah.
>> Very cold.
>> Inside?
>> Is a heater.
OK.
Great.
>> Please.
Thank you.
>> Oh, man.
OK.
I've never seen
tempura get made.
Only eaten--
>> First time, yeah.
First time seeing it.
Yes.
Very good.
Vegetarian?
>> Which meat do you eat?
When you eat?
>> Oh-- Shh.
>> I didn't think
that was allowed.
But that's great.
Any meat you want.
Just, whatever you
can get your hands on.
Mos burger.
>> Oh.
>> No?
>> Yeah, yeah, I
like Mos Burger.
>> I'm not eat--
I can't eat Mos Burger.
[LAUGHTER]
>> OK, OK.
That's a good secret.
I won't tell anyone.
OK.
>> Top secret.
OK, OK, good.
>> Finished?
OK.
So I remove and put it on there.
>> Yeah.
>> Yes, OK.
This is a real true
test of chopsticks here.
>> Yeah.
>> 180 degrees underneath.
Thank you.
>> Get a bus?
>> Outside bus?
What's bus?
>> Oh, shower.
Oh, bath.
You mean outside shower?
>> OK.
I'll find it.
>> Yeah, I will--
>> Oh, you'll show me?
>> OK.
We'll go find the outside bath.
>> Wash my hand, and
then I can pull them up.
Thank you.
Sorry.
Embarrassing.
OK.
>> Oh, I will do it.
>> Oh, thank you.
>> Oh.
>> No, that's worse.
OK.
It's all right.
I will get the batter on the--
OK.
Thank you.
>> I will--
>> OK.
Hang on.
There we go.
>> Yeah.
>> OK.
>> OK?
Sorry.
>> OK.
Good.
>> Yeah.
>> Good.
Thank you.
Outside bath.
>> Yeah.
>> It's just-- underneath it
looks like rocks and stuff.
Oh.
Why is it so hot?
Yeah, my feet are boiling.
This isn't-- that's not right.
It's very hot.
It's very warm.
But now it's really
cold outside, so--
[EXCLAIMS]
OK.
Well, that's good.
It's really hot on my legs.
It feels like I
shouldn't be in here.
But it's so cold out--
oh, man.
OK.
[GROANS]
I think I'm getting used to--
>> [BURP]
>> Cody?
You're OK, mate?
Camera operator's just belched.
With my mind clear
and my skin burning,
it was time for dinner.
Oh, wow.
Wow.
Thank you.
>> All vegetarian?
Yes.
This is the pumpkin?
>> Pumpkin tempura.
>> Tempura.
>> I made that one.
>> Spinach with
sesame and mirin?
>> Yes.
>> Mirin?
Yes.
Daikon?
>> Daikon.
>> Yeah.
>> Here we have--
>> Carrot.
>> --carrot, bean, shiitake.
>> And shiitake.
>> And miso?
>> Miso soup.
>> And rice.
Thank you.
>> Yeah, please.
>> All right.
Thank you.
It looks fantastic.
I'm going to try some.
I might just start
with the one I made--
tempura pumpkin.
This is all extremely healthy,
and it's all vegetarian.
The monk is mostly
vegetarian when in town.
But when he's outside
of the building,
he'll drop into Mos Burger.
I'm having such a great
time with this pumpkin.
OK.
This is what I made.
Yeah.
Yeah, nice.
Today Asami will teach me
more meditation techniques.
But first, he has a
little gift for me.
As you may have noticed,
I'm now wearing suspenders.
I'm not in a 1993 music video.
I am wearing suspenders
because the monk,
after my pants fell down
embarrassingly in the kitchen
when I was trying to
help him in the kitchen,
he said he had suspenders.
And he went and found them, and
he gave them to me this morning
as a gift.
I'll have to check if
he wants them back.
But if he doesn't, I'll
be wearing some suspenders
with these jeans now,
because the jeans have
become quite loose in the
time I've been in Japan.
So it's both exciting
and a real bonus.
>> Oh.
[LAUGHTER]
That's all right.
>> That's good.
OK.
Asami tells me
today's lesson will
be more enlightening than
tracing the [? ku. ?]
And all of a sudden
I'm a bit nervous.
I'm told this technique
will help me stay focused
and keep my mind clear.
But I seem to be getting
whacked more than the others.
I wonder if this is Asami's
way of telling me to keep quiet
about his Mos Burger habits.
With my Zen training complete,
it's time to fly home.
My journey here has
taught me a lot of things.
It's taught me that eating
healthy can also be delicious,
and that daily exercise
and portion control
can mean the difference
between slim and sumo.
Now it's up to me to
take this knowledge home
and apply it to my life.
Come on.
Go for a walk?
Yeah, good boy.
Good boy.
Come on.
I've been home for
a little while now,
and I've been wondering
how to integrate what I
learned into my daily routine.
Each day in Japan I was walking
almost twice the distance
I was before I
started this diet.
And with a little
help from Malcolm here
I've been able to
keep that number up.
It's been great, and not
just for me, but for Malcolm
as well.
Because, between you
and me, he was starting
to gain a little bit chubby.
I've kept up my shopping habits.
And though the
big grocery chains
don't have a lot of the
more obscure food items,
I found an Asian grocer
nearby that stocks almost
everything I need.
I visit them so often now
that the owner told me
I was his biggest customer.
At first I was flattered.
And then I realized
he was making a joke.
I have a good source for
almost all the ingredients
I need to maintain my diet--
miso paste, tofu,
natto, fish flakes,
dried pickles, ume
plums, and konjaku.
Some of the fresh
veggies I wanted,
like daikon, gobo,
and bamboo shoots,
are a lot harder to track down.
So I have to make do
with what I can find.
I still need to spend long
hours in the edit room.
But I've replaced the
Coke with green tea.
And I feel like
snacking, I keep plenty
of edamame beans on hand.
They're delicious, high
in protein and vitamins,
and low in fat.
Plus, it's a fun word to say.
Edamame.
This evening I'm
helping a friend perform
at the Sydney Comedy Festival.
In the old days I'd have driven.
But it seems like
a nice evening,
so I've decided to walk instead.
I always run into old
friends at events like these.
And sometimes they want
to grab a bite to eat.
So I'm worried that
at this late hour
the only food options
will be greasy junk food.
But it turns out
my local sushi bar
has a back menu full of
traditional and healthy dishes.
So I've been to the
local sushi train.
So this is a whole
train of salmon, natto.
And you can also get
the pickled plum, ume,
which is what I stick in
my rice every morning.
You've just got to
work hard to find it.
You need just to ask.
Sushi train?
They put out stuff in the train.
But they put the big ones
out, the ones everyone wants.
Because they don't
want it to go to waste.
But the menu, that's
where you can get plum,
natto, and pickles.
It's great for nights
when I want to go out
or don't have time to cook.
Plus, the look on the
waitress' face the first time
I ordered natto was priceless.
For the most part,
adapting the Japanese diet
to fit my lifestyle has been
a fairly simple and painless
process.
Keeping it up for the remainder
of my 12-week experiment
shouldn't be a problem at all.
Unless something drastically
changes in my work life.
I've just checked
my emails, and I've
got a job coming up where
I'm directing a comedy
show starting in like two days.
So that's going to
be a lot of work,
and I'm going to
be on set a lot.
So I've been planning
how to do my morning
ritual to make sure I get
my bento box done in time.
Mm.
I'm making my bento
while I eat breakfast,
just because I have to save
some time in the morning.
And this is the plum that
I've put on in the rice.
So that is my rice component.
Done.
No I'll make the good
side of the bento box.
Because I'm not a big rice
eater, I love this part.
This has got all the protein
and the vegetables in it.
Konjaku.
Carrot.
I'm building my bento
box for the day.
And I'm also making a little
brown rice, tofu, and avocado
sushi roll as a snack.
And I can't forget about
the miso soup and thermos
of green tea.
Aside from all
the extra walking,
I also like to start my days
now with some light exercise
followed by my usual trip
to the local swimming pool.
But not just to shower.
Now I like to swim
a few laps first.
Swimming at a swimming pool--
who'd have guessed?
So today we're filming in a
house in a suburb in Sydney.
There's always a lot of
temptation in the morning,
because the first
things that happened
is they lay out
all the hot food,
and everyone just sits and eat
while I wait for them to start.
But I still have to get
here at the right time,
because I'm the guy
who picks the space.
And then we move, and they start
slowly building and eating.
So I have to sit and wait
for them to finish eating.
But lucky I have natto.
So it's keeping me sustained.
I would love you
guys to still be
orientated towards the screens.
So pathetic, yeah.
And like, oh, look at what
this person is up to, yeah.
And then maybe--
Directing is one of
my biggest passions,
especially directing comedy.
But lunch on set
requires discipline.
The catered meals smell good--
really good.
Well, it's lunchtime on set.
And everyone's got their
lunch that's been catered for.
But I've got my
rice and bento box.
Everyone's very supportive.
They're teasing me today.
But normally they'd
be very supportive.
>> We're just going to go
all get [INAUDIBLE] mash
[INAUDIBLE]
>> Yeah, enjoy it.
I don't care.
People make fun of me and
get to eat mashed potato.
I don't care.
Who wants to try some?
You can try some.
Come on, man.
You want some?
Do you want to try it?
I cook easy Japanese meals
every evening after work.
And tamagoyaki is a
simple dish to make.
I don't have a square pan,
but my round frying pan
will get the job done.
It's not pretty, but it works.
It's so nerve
racking, the bit where
you have to pick it
up and get the thing
to slide under in time.
Because if you don't,
it just starts cooking,
and it doesn't slide anymore.
But I made it, so
crisis averted.
OK, cut.
Yeah, let's do it.
Let's shoot that.
Can I get you
starting further back?
Everyone starting further back?
Directing the comedy program
over the past few weeks
has been hectic.
But through it all I've managed
to stay true to my diet--
natto for breakfast,
followed by exercise,
then my morning stroll,
swim, and shower.
I prepare my bento box
daily to eat on set.
And cooking meals has become
a part of my daily life.
This Japanese way of eating
no longer feels like a diet.
I eat every meal
with chopsticks,
and drinking nothing but green
tea has become second nature.
The 12 weeks is up.
And though I feel great, it's
time to return to the doctor
and see exactly what effect this
lifestyle has had on my health.
>> The first thing that we'll
talk about is your amazing
weight loss.
You're down from 138 kilograms
on our first visit to 114
kilograms today.
And that's a 24-kilogram loss,
which is incredibly great.
And of course, your weight loss
has brought your biological age
down from 64 years down to 55.
So you're a work
in progress there.
And again, that result is
very dependent on the weight.
So the more weight you
lose, the more favorable
that result will be over time.
The other really good result
from a medical perspective
is that your abnormal liver
function tests are now normal.
The C-reactive protein is
the inflammation marker
that we looked at.
And you scored 4.6 previously.
But it's down to 2 now.
And we know that the
lower that score,
the less cardiovascular risk
you have moving forward.
So you no longer have
that medically significant
inflammation of
your liver that was
quite obvious on your
previous liver function tests
that we checked
a few months ago.
>> That's great.
>> Your insulin levels--
and we talked about
those prediabetic,
worrying insulin
levels previously--
they've dropped by 64%.
They're nearly in
normal range now.
You were at 36.
You're now at 13.
And the ideal is 10 or below.
So you're ever so close to that.
So if we look at across the
board, a reduced risk of type 2
diabetes, a reduced
risk of heart attack
and a stroke, much
improved liver function
test, and your knees
will thank you.
>> The doctor's consultation
produced some amazing results.
My weight is down from 138 to
114, a drop of 24 kilograms
or around 50 pounds
in just two weeks.
My biological age is
down from 64 to 55.
My liver function test also
shows the inflammation is gone.
And my liver enzyme
levels are back
within the reference range.
Also, my C-reactive protein
level, the heart attack
indicator, is now a
much healthier 2.0.
And I'm aiming at a
perfect score of 0 soon.
And finally, my insulin
levels are also down.
Before the diet I was on a scary
36, well above the healthy 10
and under range.
It's now down to 13.
And with a little more
work I'm confident I
can get it to under 10.
Living the Japanese diet
these past few months
has had a profound
impact on my life.
And I'm not just talking about
the weight loss and improved
health.
It's shown me that
it's never too late
to make a positive
change in life,
and that I've got the
willpower to make it happen.
I've learned that dieting
isn't just about food choices.
It's also about mindset.
I'm determined to continue my
journey towards better health.
My new lifestyle has filled
me with happiness and energy.
And because of that, I'm
also filled with pride.
[MUSIC PLAYING]